This is pre release so DO NOT USE ON IMPORTANT SYSTEMS!


Welcome to wapadmin - administration via wap! 


1. What is wapadmin intended to be?

The idea to write some kind of wap interface to a linux box 
came into my mind some time ago but I started realising it when
O2 germany introduced their wap flatrate in autumn 2003. 
wapadmin is intended to make it possible for any admin or user 
of a linux or *nix box to accomplish certain tasks from every place 
where any usable gsm network is available. 
The following items are planned to be implemented:
	
	- check your server's stats, eg load, logged in users
	- check your network, eg ping and traceroute some hosts 
	  perform whois queries and query your nameserver via 
	  nslookup
	- interface to the ftpd, eg check logged in users or 
	  transfer statistics
	- interface to user administration, eg lock or unlock 
	  an user's account or create and delete accounts
	- interface to an iptables script, to open some ports for 
	  ip-adresses or subnets, for example to grant some user 
	  access to the ftp service or the ssh port.

All theses tasks will be performed by a wml interface designed to fit 
on most mobile phones' displays. 

2. How do I install and configure wapadmin

Installing wapdmin is a very easy task if your web server, most commonly 
the apache httpd, is already set up for delivering wml pages. If this  
has not been done yet, please refer to some docs you can find on the net. 
This topic will be covered in this README in a future release. 
To install wapadmin just extract the wapadmin-x.xx.tar.gz file you 
downloaded into a directory which is accessible by your webserver, for 
example /var/www/wapadmin. 

To configure wapadmin just edit the config.php file you will find in 
the installation directory. The file is self explaining but some comments 
will be added soon, to make the setup a little bit easier. 

3. Is wapadmin secure? 

I do not think that any service that can be accessed via a web gui is 
really secure. Of course security can be enhanced a lot by the use of 
ssl certificates and thus the transport of your data via the https 
protocol but I don't know yet if it's possible to create a secure line 
between your service provider's wap gateway and the wapadmin host. 
All the traffic between your cell phone and your provider's gateway is 
encrypted as described in the gsm protocol specs, but I do not 
think it is a reliable encryption of valuable data. 
I also have to admin, that variables are not checked, so there could 
possibly buffer overflows or one could just pass arguments to external 
programs used by wapadmin. 

So I do not recommend to set up wapadmin on important servers! 

Security is not important for me, because this is just a freetime project 
I do for fun. :)

4. Where can I find a new version of wapadmin?

The wapadmin project homepage is located on: 

http://sourceforge.net/projects/wapadmin

5. Who is the author of wapadmin and how can I contact him? 

Have a look at: www.alles-am-en.de (german web site)

Contact via eMail: wapadmin@alles-am-en.de (english or german)

6. Thanks... 

Thanks go to: 

SourceForge for hosting my crappy little piece of code! :)

Andres Bravalle for his excellent PHP and WML tutorial published on www.phpbuilder.com
  -->> http://www.phpbuilder.com/columns/baravalle20010221.php3

